in this video we are going to install
Jenkins on Linux you will learn how to
install Jenkins on both Debian and rpm
like Linux distributions the practical
part of this video is to install Jenkins
on Ubuntu the only prerequisite is to
have Java installed on your machine
either the Java Runtime environment JRE
for the Java development kit JDK
I recommend to use Java 8 if possible if
you don't have Java installed yet here
are some commands to install open JDK 8
on debian like distros such as Ubuntu we
will not go into the Java installation
during the practical part of the video
but do check that you have Java 8
installed before you start here are some
commands to install Jenkins on rpm based
Linux distributions like red head and
Santos again will not show this during
the practical part of the video but if
you use this Linux distros you should be
able to follow the video with these
commands finally these are the commands
to install Jenkins on Ubuntu and this is
what I'm going to show you during the
demo in a nutshell we'll add the PPA
repository for Jenkins long-term support
LDS which I recommend to use install
Jenkins via up.get and enable Jenkins to
start as a service at boot time I will
use Ubuntu 1604 but this instruction
should work on any recent Ubuntu distro
note that these instructions should also
work if you use Windows and installed
the windows subsystem for Linux refer
back to video 1.3 without any further
ado let's install Jenkins on Ubuntu the
first let's check that Java is correctly
installed with the Java version command
here I'm running Java 8 o 1.8 so it's
fine
then with this w get an up key commands
we add the key for the PPA repository
for Jenkins
LTS this requires pseudo permissions so
I need to enter my password I get an
okay so that's fine now we add the new
PPA to our list of PPA repositories
finally we update our list of PPA repos
with the up.get update command this
might take a little while depending on
your internet connection and the list of
PPA repositories but you can see on the
first line that the PPA repo for Jenkins
has been updated I move forward here and
install Jenkins with the up get install
command we are asked for a confirmation
and the why to confirm and installation
starts this might require some time
depending on your internet connection so
I'm moving forward to the end of the
installation where we can see the
notification that Jenkins has been set
up now we start Jenkins as a service
using this system D command and we
enable Jenkins to start as a service at
boot time with the system CTL enabled
command you may see a message like this
one but that's fine
the Jenkins is running using the PS
command
now open your favorite browser and head
to localhost colon 8080 to see Jenkins
running we are asked to unlock Jenkins
using the temporary administrator
password stored locally copy the path to
the file and open the file with your
favorite editor my need sudo rights to
open it copy the temporary password
paste it under administrator password
and click on continue
we are now asked to customize Jenkins by
installing plugins if you know exactly
which plugins you need click on select
plugins to install and choose your
plugins otherwise install the suggested
plugins
I recommend this option if you are
starting with Jenkins this takes a
little while depending on your internet
connection so I'm moving forward a bit
until we get to plugins installation
green as last step we are asked to
create the first admin user enter a user
name a strong password full name and
email address and click on save and
finish Jenkins is now set up so start
using it well done
Jenkins is now installed on your system
and ready to be put to work this is the
end of this video where we installed and
set up Jenkins on Linux watch the next
video where we will be installing
Jenkins with docker